# Test-PathExists

## SYNOPSIS
Checks if a path to a file or folder exists, and creates it if it does not exist.

## SYNTAX

### Set 1
```
Test-PathExists [-Path] <String> [-PathType] <Object> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION
This function uses .NET System.IO.File and System.IO.Directory to check if a path to a file or folder exists, and creates it if it does not exist. It is capable of creating folders and files that are nested.

## EXAMPLES

### PS C:\\\>Test-PathExists -Path "C:\\temp\\testfiles\\SomeFile.txt" -PathType File

```powershell
PS C:\>Test-PathExists -Path "C:\temp\mytestfiles\SomeFile.txt" -PathType File
```

### PS C:\\\>Test-PathExists -Path "C:\\temp\\test" -PathFype Folder -Force -Confirm:$false

```powershell
PS C:\>Test-PathExists -Path "C:\temp\test" -PathFype Folder
```

## PARAMETERS

### Path
Type the file system where the folder or file to check should be verified.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: Set 1
Aliases: 

Required: true
Position: 0
Default Value: 
Pipeline Input: False
```

### PathType
Specify path to check for or create either a file or folder
Valid options are "File" and "Folder", depending on which to check.

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Set 1
Aliases: 

Required: true
Position: 1
Default Value: 
Pipeline Input: False
```

### Force
Use this switch to force the creation of folder or file if it does not already exist.

```yaml
Type: Switch
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: false
Position: named
Default Value: 
Pipeline Input: False
```

### \<CommonParameters\>
This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see about_CommonParameters (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### None


## OUTPUTS

### System.IO.Stream


## NOTES

### Disclaimer
THIS CODE IS MADE AVAILABLE AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. THE ENTIRE RISK OF THE USE OR THE RESULTS FROM THE USE OF THIS CODE REMAINS WITH THE USER.

## RELATED LINKS


*Generated by: v3.0.71 (L)PowerShell HelpWriter 2025*
